Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2022-11-27T14:24:50+07:00

MN 66
+ To the quail, the vine binding is strong.
+ To the elephant, the strong ropes is easily break.
+ Some people who are poor, with few possession and little wealth: ugly house, ugly bed, ugly kitchen, ugly wife. See the freedom & pleasure of a meditating monk, they think of going forth. Yet they can not give up these possessions. To this man, this ugly house, ugly bed, ugly kitchen, ugly wife is a strong bond, a firm bond.
+ Some people who are rich, with many possessions and great wealth: beautiful houses & lands, beautiful beds, many servants and good food, beautiful wifes. See the freedom & pleasure of a meditating monk, they think of going forth. Yet they can give up these possessions. To this man, these houses & lands, beds, servants & food, wifes is a weak bond, a rotten bond.
Similarly:
+ Some people are told by Buddha to give something up. They said "What of this little things?". They don't give it up and nurse bitterness toward the training. To them, this is not a little thing, but a strong bond, a firm bond.
+ Some people are told by Buddha to give something up. They said "What of give up this little things when the Buddha told to give it up?". They give it up and don't nurse bitterness toward the training. When they give it up, they live free. To them, this is not a strong bond, a firm bond, but a weak, rotten bond.
--------------------
There are four people found in the world:
1. A person practicing to give up and let go of attachments. As they do so, memories and thoughts connected with attachments beset them. They tolerate them and don’t give them up, get rid of them, eliminate them, and obliterate them.
2. A person practicing to give up and let go of attachments. As they do so, memories and thoughts connected with attachments beset them. They don’t tolerate them, but give them up, get rid of them, eliminate them, and obliterate them.
3. A person practicing to give up and let go of attachments. As they do so, every so often they lose mindfulness, and memories and thoughts connected with attachments beset them. Their mindfulness is slow to come up, but they quickly give up, get rid of, eliminate, and obliterate those thoughts.
4. A person who, understanding that attachment is the root of suffering, is freed with the ending of attachments.
